then Solomon spoke the Lord said he
then Solomon spoke the Lord said he would dwell in the dark cloud
would dwell in the dark cloud
would dwell in the dark cloud I have surely built you an exalted house
I have surely built you an exalted house
I have surely built you an exalted house and a place for you to dwell in forever
and a place for you to dwell in forever
and a place for you to dwell in forever then the King turned around and blessed
then the King turned around and blessed
then the King turned around and blessed the whole Assembly of Israel while all
the whole Assembly of Israel while all
the whole Assembly of Israel while all the Assembly of Israel was standing and
the Assembly of Israel was standing and
the Assembly of Israel was standing and he said blessed be the Lord God of
he said blessed be the Lord God of
he said blessed be the Lord God of Israel who has fulfilled with his hands
Israel who has fulfilled with his hands
Israel who has fulfilled with his hands what he spoke with his mouth to my
what he spoke with his mouth to my
what he spoke with his mouth to my father David saying since the day that I
father David saying since the day that I
father David saying since the day that I brought my people out of the land of
brought my people out of the land of
brought my people out of the land of Egypt I have chosen no City from any
Egypt I have chosen no City from any
Egypt I have chosen no City from any tribe of Israel in which to build a
tribe of Israel in which to build a
tribe of Israel in which to build a house that my name might be there nor
house that my name might be there nor
house that my name might be there nor did I choose any man to be a ruler over
did I choose any man to be a ruler over
did I choose any man to be a ruler over my people Israel yet I have chosen
my people Israel yet I have chosen
my people Israel yet I have chosen Jerusalem that my name may be there and
Jerusalem that my name may be there and
Jerusalem that my name may be there and I have chosen David to be over my people
I have chosen David to be over my people
I have chosen David to be over my people Israel now it was in the heart of my
Israel now it was in the heart of my
Israel now it was in the heart of my father David to build a temple for the
father David to build a temple for the
father David to build a temple for the name of the Lord God of Israel but the
name of the Lord God of Israel but the
name of the Lord God of Israel but the Lord said to my father David whereas it
Lord said to my father David whereas it
Lord said to my father David whereas it was in your heart to build a temple for
was in your heart to build a temple for
was in your heart to build a temple for my name you did well in that it was in
my name you did well in that it was in
my name you did well in that it was in your heart nevertheless you shall not
your heart nevertheless you shall not
your heart nevertheless you shall not build the temple but your son who will
build the temple but your son who will
build the temple but your son who will come from your body he shall build the
come from your body he shall build the
come from your body he shall build the temple for my name so the Lord has
temple for my name so the Lord has
temple for my name so the Lord has fulfilled his word which he spoke and I
fulfilled his word which he spoke and I
fulfilled his word which he spoke and I have filled the position of my father
have filled the position of my father
have filled the position of my father David and sits on the throne of Israel
David and sits on the throne of Israel
David and sits on the throne of Israel as the Lord promised and I have built
as the Lord promised and I have built
as the Lord promised and I have built the temple for the name of the Lord God
the temple for the name of the Lord God
the temple for the name of the Lord God of Israel
of Israel
of Israel there I have put the ark in which is the
there I have put the ark in which is the
there I have put the ark in which is the Covenant of the Lord which he made with
Covenant of the Lord which he made with
Covenant of the Lord which he made with the children of Israel then Solomon
the children of Israel then Solomon
the children of Israel then Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in
stood before the altar of the Lord in
stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the Assembly of
the presence of all the Assembly of
the presence of all the Assembly of Israel and spread out his hands for
Israel and spread out his hands for
Israel and spread out his hands for Solomon had made a bronze platform five
Solomon had made a bronze platform five
Solomon had made a bronze platform five cubits long five cubits wide and three
cubits long five cubits wide and three
cubits long five cubits wide and three cubits high and had set it in the midst
cubits high and had set it in the midst
cubits high and had set it in the midst of the court and he stood on it melt
of the court and he stood on it melt
of the court and he stood on it melt down on his knees before all the
down on his knees before all the
down on his knees before all the Assembly of Israel and spread out his
Assembly of Israel and spread out his
Assembly of Israel and spread out his hands toward heaven
hands toward heaven
hands toward heaven Lord God of Israel there is no God in
Lord God of Israel there is no God in
Lord God of Israel there is no God in heaven or on earth like you who keep
heaven or on earth like you who keep
heaven or on earth like you who keep your covenant and mercy with your
your covenant and mercy with your
your covenant and mercy with your servants who walk before you with all
servants who walk before you with all
servants who walk before you with all their hearts you have kept what you
their hearts you have kept what you
their hearts you have kept what you promised your servant David my father
promised your servant David my father
promised your servant David my father you have both spoken with your mouth and
you have both spoken with your mouth and
you have both spoken with your mouth and fulfilled it with your hand as it is
fulfilled it with your hand as it is
fulfilled it with your hand as it is this day therefore Lord God of Israel
this day therefore Lord God of Israel
this day therefore Lord God of Israel now keep what you promised your servant
now keep what you promised your servant
now keep what you promised your servant David my father saying you shall not
David my father saying you shall not
David my father saying you shall not fail to have a man sit before me on the
fail to have a man sit before me on the
fail to have a man sit before me on the throne of Israel only if your sons take
throne of Israel only if your sons take
throne of Israel only if your sons take heed to their way that they walk in my
heed to their way that they walk in my
heed to their way that they walk in my law as you have walked before me and now
law as you have walked before me and now
law as you have walked before me and now O Lord God of Israel let your word come
O Lord God of Israel let your word come
O Lord God of Israel let your word come true which you have spoken to your
true which you have spoken to your
true which you have spoken to your servant David but will God indeed dwell
servant David but will God indeed dwell
servant David but will God indeed dwell with men on the earth behold heaven and
with men on the earth behold heaven and
with men on the earth behold heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain you
the heaven of heavens cannot contain you
the heaven of heavens cannot contain you how much less this temple which I have
how much less this temple which I have
how much less this temple which I have built yet regard the prayer of your
built yet regard the prayer of your
built yet regard the prayer of your servant and his supplication o Lord my
servant and his supplication o Lord my
servant and his supplication o Lord my God and listen to the cry and the prayer
God and listen to the cry and the prayer
God and listen to the cry and the prayer which your servant is praying before you
which your servant is praying before you
which your servant is praying before you that your eyes may be open toward this
that your eyes may be open toward this
that your eyes may be open toward this temple day and night toward the place
temple day and night toward the place
temple day and night toward the place where you said you would put your name
where you said you would put your name
where you said you would put your name that you may hear the prayer which your
that you may hear the prayer which your
that you may hear the prayer which your servant makes toward this place and may
servant makes toward this place and may
servant makes toward this place and may you hear the supplications of your
you hear the supplications of your
you hear the supplications of your servant and of your people Israel when
servant and of your people Israel when
servant and of your people Israel when they pray toward this place
they pray toward this place
they pray toward this place here from heaven your dwelling place and
here from heaven your dwelling place and
here from heaven your dwelling place and when you hear forgive if anyone sins
when you hear forgive if anyone sins
when you hear forgive if anyone sins against his neighbor and is forced to
against his neighbor and is forced to
against his neighbor and is forced to take an oath and comes and takes an oath
take an oath and comes and takes an oath
take an oath and comes and takes an oath before your altar in this temple then
before your altar in this temple then
before your altar in this temple then hear from heaven and act and judge your
hear from heaven and act and judge your
hear from heaven and act and judge your service bringing retribution on the
service bringing retribution on the
service bringing retribution on the wicked by bringing his way on his own
wicked by bringing his way on his own
wicked by bringing his way on his own head and justifying the righteous by
head and justifying the righteous by
head and justifying the righteous by giving him according to his
giving him according to his
giving him according to his righteousness or if your people Israel
righteousness or if your people Israel
righteousness or if your people Israel are defeated before an enemy because
are defeated before an enemy because
are defeated before an enemy because they have sinned against you and
they have sinned against you and
they have sinned against you and returned and confess your name and pray
returned and confess your name and pray
returned and confess your name and pray and make supplication before you in this
and make supplication before you in this
and make supplication before you in this temple then hear from heaven and forgive
temple then hear from heaven and forgive
temple then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of your people Israel and bring
the sin of your people Israel and bring
the sin of your people Israel and bring them back to the land which you gave to
them back to the land which you gave to
them back to the land which you gave to them and their fathers when the heavens
them and their fathers when the heavens
them and their fathers when the heavens are shut up and there is no rain because
are shut up and there is no rain because
are shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against you when they
they have sinned against you when they
they have sinned against you when they pray toward this place and confess your
pray toward this place and confess your
pray toward this place and confess your name and turn from their sin because you
name and turn from their sin because you
name and turn from their sin because you have licked them then here in heaven and
have licked them then here in heaven and
have licked them then here in heaven and forgive the sin of your servants your
forgive the sin of your servants your
forgive the sin of your servants your people Israel that you may teach them
people Israel that you may teach them
people Israel that you may teach them the good way in which they should walk
the good way in which they should walk
the good way in which they should walk and send rain on your land which you
and send rain on your land which you
and send rain on your land which you have given to your people as an
have given to your people as an
have given to your people as an inheritance
inheritance
inheritance when there is famine in the land
when there is famine in the land
when there is famine in the land pestilence or blight or mildew locusts
pestilence or blight or mildew locusts
pestilence or blight or mildew locusts or grasshoppers when their enemies
or grasshoppers when their enemies
or grasshoppers when their enemies besieged them in the land of their
besieged them in the land of their
besieged them in the land of their cities
cities
cities whatever plague or whatever sickness
whatever plague or whatever sickness
whatever plague or whatever sickness there is whatever prayer whatever
there is whatever prayer whatever
there is whatever prayer whatever supplication is made by anyone or by all
supplication is made by anyone or by all
supplication is made by anyone or by all your people Israel when each one knows
your people Israel when each one knows
your people Israel when each one knows his own burden and his own grief and
his own burden and his own grief and
his own burden and his own grief and spreads out his hands to this temple
spreads out his hands to this temple
spreads out his hands to this temple then hear from heaven your dwelling
then hear from heaven your dwelling
then hear from heaven your dwelling place and forgive and give to everyone
place and forgive and give to everyone
place and forgive and give to everyone according to all his ways whose heart
according to all his ways whose heart
according to all his ways whose heart you know for you alone know the hearts
you know for you alone know the hearts
you know for you alone know the hearts of the sons of men but they may fear you
of the sons of men but they may fear you
of the sons of men but they may fear you to walk in your ways as long as they
to walk in your ways as long as they
to walk in your ways as long as they live in the land which you gave to our
live in the land which you gave to our
live in the land which you gave to our fathers moreover concerning a foreigner
fathers moreover concerning a foreigner
fathers moreover concerning a foreigner who is not of your people Israel but has
who is not of your people Israel but has
who is not of your people Israel but has come from a far country for the sake of
come from a far country for the sake of
come from a far country for the sake of your great name and your mighty hand and
your great name and your mighty hand and
your great name and your mighty hand and your outstretched arm when they come and
your outstretched arm when they come and
your outstretched arm when they come and pray in this temple then hear from
pray in this temple then hear from
pray in this temple then hear from heaven your dwelling place and do
heaven your dwelling place and do
heaven your dwelling place and do according to all for which the foreigner
according to all for which the foreigner
according to all for which the foreigner calls to you that all peoples of the
calls to you that all peoples of the
calls to you that all peoples of the earth may know your name and fear you as
earth may know your name and fear you as
earth may know your name and fear you as to your people is
to your people is
to your people is and that they may know that this temple
and that they may know that this temple
and that they may know that this temple which I have built is called by your
which I have built is called by your
which I have built is called by your name when your people go out to battle
name when your people go out to battle
name when your people go out to battle against their enemies wherever you send
against their enemies wherever you send
against their enemies wherever you send them and when they pray to you toward
them and when they pray to you toward
them and when they pray to you toward this city which you have chosen and the
this city which you have chosen and the
this city which you have chosen and the temple which I have built for your name
temple which I have built for your name
temple which I have built for your name then hear from heaven their prayer and
then hear from heaven their prayer and
then hear from heaven their prayer and their supplication and maintain their
their supplication and maintain their
their supplication and maintain their cause when they sin against you for
cause when they sin against you for
cause when they sin against you for there is no one who does not sin and you
there is no one who does not sin and you
there is no one who does not sin and you become angry with them and deliver them
become angry with them and deliver them
become angry with them and deliver them to the enemy
to the enemy
to the enemy they take them captive to the land far
they take them captive to the land far
they take them captive to the land far or near yet when they come to themselves
or near yet when they come to themselves
or near yet when they come to themselves in the land where they were carried
in the land where they were carried
in the land where they were carried captive and repent and make supplication
captive and repent and make supplication
captive and repent and make supplication to you in the land of their captivity
to you in the land of their captivity
to you in the land of their captivity saying we have sinned we have done wrong
saying we have sinned we have done wrong
saying we have sinned we have done wrong and have committed wickedness and when
and have committed wickedness and when
and have committed wickedness and when they return to you with all their heart
they return to you with all their heart
they return to you with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of
and with all their soul in the land of
and with all their soul in the land of their captivity where they have been
their captivity where they have been
their captivity where they have been carried captive and pray toward their
carried captive and pray toward their
carried captive and pray toward their land which you gave to their fathers the
land which you gave to their fathers the
land which you gave to their fathers the city which you have chosen and toward
city which you have chosen and toward
city which you have chosen and toward the temple which I have built for your
the temple which I have built for your
the temple which I have built for your name then hear from heaven your dwelling
name then hear from heaven your dwelling
name then hear from heaven your dwelling place their prayer and their
place their prayer and their
place their prayer and their supplications and maintained their cause
supplications and maintained their cause
supplications and maintained their cause and forgive your people who have sinned
and forgive your people who have sinned
and forgive your people who have sinned against you now my god I pray that your
against you now my god I pray that your
against you now my god I pray that your eyes be open and let your ears be
eyes be open and let your ears be
eyes be open and let your ears be attentive to the prayer made in this
attentive to the prayer made in this
attentive to the prayer made in this place now therefore arise O Lord God to
place now therefore arise O Lord God to
place now therefore arise O Lord God to your resting place you and the arc of
your resting place you and the arc of
your resting place you and the arc of your strength that your priests Oh Lord
your strength that your priests Oh Lord
your strength that your priests Oh Lord God be clothed with salvation and let
God be clothed with salvation and let
God be clothed with salvation and let your saints rejoice in goodness O Lord
your saints rejoice in goodness O Lord
your saints rejoice in goodness O Lord God do not turn away the face of your
God do not turn away the face of your
God do not turn away the face of your anointed remember the mercies of your
anointed remember the mercies of your
anointed remember the mercies of your servant David
servant David
servant David you